Improve grammar in EU-US Data Transfer trend report (#541)
ambanum/OpenTermsArchive.org: content/publications/data-sovereignty-across-the-atlantic-a-comparison-of-eu-and-us-platform-governance/index.md

If personal data leaves the EU, protections must follow it in a way that remains legally contestable. This principle was reinforced by the CJEU in [__Schrems II__](https://infocuria.curia.europa.eu/tabs/document?source=document&docid=228677&doclang=EN), which held that the validity of transfer mechanisms depends not only on contractual commitments but also on the legal environment of the receiving country, including access by public authorities and the availability of effective judicial remedies.

> However, in the case of the US, sovereignty is usually operationalized through control. The legitimacy of governance is premised on the state's capacity for decisive action when there is a perception of strategic exposure through its data systems. Unlike Europe with the GDPR, the US does not have a general restriction on the flow of data. Instead, the US has sectoral regulations and enforcement tools for data privacy. This is illustrated through the implementation of the CLOUD Act, which enables law enforcement in the US to demand the disclosure of data by US-based providers of services, regardless of the location of the data.

Author: ```suggestion
However, in the case of the US, sovereignty is usually operationalized through control. The legitimacy of governance is premised on the state's capacity for decisive action when there is a perception of strategic exposure through its data systems. Unlike Europe and the GDPR, the United States does not have a general restriction on the flow of data. Instead, the US has sectoral regulations and enforcement tools for data privacy. This is illustrated through the implementation of the CLOUD Act, which enables law enforcement in the US to demand the disclosure of data by US-based providers of services, regardless of the location of the data.
```
